
<!-- README.md is generated from README.qmd. Please edit that file -->

# How wise is the crowd?

Can we infer people are accurate and competent merely because they agree
with each other?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Abstract

Are people who agree on something more likely to be right and competent?
Evidence suggests that people tend to make this inference. However,
standard wisdom of crowds approaches only provide limited normative
grounds . Using simulations and analytical arguments, we argue that when
individuals make independent and unbiased estimates, under a wide range
of parameters, individuals whose answers converge with each other tend
to have more accurate answers and to be more competent. In 6 experiments
(UK participants, total N = 1197), we show that participants infer that
informants who agree have more accurate answers and are more competent,
even when they have no priors, and that these inferences are weakened
when the informants were systematically biased. In conclusion, we
speculate that inferences from convergence to accuracy and competence
might help explain why people deem scientists competent, even if they
have little understanding of science.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## How to download and replicate

To reproduce the findings and re-run the analysis, do the following:

1.  Download and install this repository. You can use GitHub to clone or
    fork the repository (see the green “Clone or download” button at the
    top of the GitHub page).
2.  Open `consensus_trust.Rproj` to open an [RStudio
    Project](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/workflow-projects.html).
3.  Within the RStudio Project, open the `paper.Rmd` file and run it.

Please find the [session info below](#session-info).

*Estimated installation time* : If you have R and Rstudio installed,
then adding additional packages required in our R scripts is quick (a
couple of minutes)

*Estimated run time*: Rendering the `anonymized.Rmd` document takes
about 2mins on our machine (see [session info](#session-info))

## Files glossary

- `appendix*` files contain the appendices that are automatically added
  `paper.Rmd` when rendering the file.
- `Cogsci*` files are documents used to generate a shorter version of
  our paper submitted for the CogSci 2024 conference.
- `Experiment*` folders contain all files related to the respective
  experiment. The `/data` folders contain the raw data (`qualtrics.csv`)
  and cleaned data (`cleaned.csv`). The cleaning can be reproduced by
  running the `cleaning.Rmd`. `Experiment_1` and `Experiment_4` also
  contain the code for the simulations (`model.Rmd`) and several data
  files with simulated data.
- `functions/` folder contains functions that we rely upon in our
  analysis scripts. To keep the `paper.Rmd` document neat and readable,
  we wrote all lengthy code bits as external functions.
- figures includes images used in the `paper.Rmd` file
- `howwise_0131.pdf` is the final submission to the CogSci 2024
  conference, based on the raw files but edited in
  [overleaf](https://www.overleaf.com/).
- `output` folder lists all figures generated by the `paper.Rmd` file as
  `.png` and `.pdf` files.
- `paper.pdf` is the rendered version of `paper.Rmd`
- `references.bib` contains the references
- `stimuli` folder contains all stimuli

## Session info

    #> R version 4.2.2 (2022-10-31)
    #> Platform: aarch64-apple-darwin20 (64-bit)
    #> Running under: macOS 14.1
    #> 
    #> Matrix products: default
    #> BLAS:   /Library/Frameworks/R.framework/Versions/4.2-arm64/Resources/lib/libRblas.0.dylib
    #> LAPACK: /Library/Frameworks/R.framework/Versions/4.2-arm64/Resources/lib/libRlapack.dylib
    #> 
    #> locale:
    #> [1] en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/C/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8
    #> 
    #> attached base packages:
    #> [1] stats     graphics  grDevices utils     datasets  methods   base     
    #> 
    #> loaded via a namespace (and not attached):
    #>  [1] compiler_4.2.2  here_1.0.1      fastmap_1.1.1   rprojroot_2.0.3
    #>  [5] cli_3.6.2       tools_4.2.2     htmltools_0.5.7 rstudioapi_0.14
    #>  [9] yaml_2.3.8      rmarkdown_2.25  knitr_1.45      jsonlite_1.8.8 
    #> [13] xfun_0.41       digest_0.6.34   rlang_1.1.3     evaluate_0.23

## Licenses

**Text and figures:** All prose and images are licensed under Creative
Commons ([CC-BY-4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)).

**Code:** All code is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).
